Horses have the largest eyes of any land mammal.
Horses can sleep both lying down and standing up.
Horses can run shortly after birth.
Domestic horses have a lifespan of around 25 years.
A horse's teeth take up a larger amount of space in their head than their brain.
Horses have around 205 bones in their skeleton.
Horses have been domesticated for over 5000 years.
A male horse is called a stallion, and a female horse is a mare.
Horses can see nearly 360 degrees at one time.
The fastest recorded sprinting speed of a horse was 55 mph.
Horses use their ears, eyes and nostrils to express their mood.
Horses are social animals and will get lonely if kept alone.
A group of horses will not go to sleep at the same time - at least one will stay awake to watch for danger.
The hoof of a horse is like a fingernail, it keeps growing and needs to be clipped.
Horses have better memories than elephants.
A horse's age can be estimated from its teeth.
The horse industry contributes approximately $40 billion in direct economic impact to the U.S. economy each year.
Horses cannot vomit.
The Przewalski's horse is the only truly wild horse species still in existence. The only wild population is in Mongolia.
There are over 300 breeds of horses in the world.
Horses have been found in cave paintings that date back to around 15,000 BC.
Horses were first domesticated in the steppes of Central Asia.
The height of horses is measured in units known as 'hands.'
The tallest horse on record was a Shire named Big Jake, standing 20 hands tall.
The smallest horse on record is a miniature horse named Thumbelina, standing 17 inches tall.
Ponies are not baby horses but fully grown horses that are small.
A horse's field of vision is about 350 degrees.
Horses can communicate their feelings through facial expressions.
Horses will not lie down simultaneously because at least one will stand to watch for predators.
A horse's heart typically weighs between 9 and 10 pounds.
The horse's brain weighs half that of a human's.
Horses are herbivores (plant eaters).
A horse can drink up to 10 gallons of water per day.
Horses have a great sense of balance, partly because they have a stay apparatus in their legs allowing them to sleep standing up without getting tired.
A horse gallops at an average speed of 27 mph.
The first cloned horse was a Haflinger mare in Italy in 2003.
Horses' hooves grow approximately 0.25 inches per month, and take nearly a year to grow from the coronet band to the ground.
The word 'chivalry' comes from the French word 'chevalier,' meaning horseman or knight.
Horses have a unique hoof mechanism called the 'frog,' which acts as a shock absorber for a horse's legs, and also helps to pump blood back up the leg.
The oldest horse on record lived to be 62 years old.
A horse's teeth occupy more space in the head than the brain.
Horses can rotate their ears 180 degrees using 10 different muscles.
The horse genome was sequenced in 2007.
Horses produce approximately 10 gallons of saliva a day.
The American Quarter Horse is the most popular breed in the United States.
Approximately 4.6 million Americans work in the horse industry in one way or another.
The horse industry directly produces goods and services of $25.3 billion and has a total impact of $112 billion on U.S. gross domestic product.
Feral horses are horses that live in the wild but are descended from domesticated ancestors.